In this demonstration, you will learn how to commit and push changes.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
As you can see, we are working now with my user account.
I haven't opened a solution yet,
so let's go to Team Explorer and let's click on the
plug to manage the connections.
Let's double-click on the WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool repository to open it.
Now let's double-click on the
WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool solution to open this solution.
Let's go back to the Solution Explorer and you can see
we have opened now the solution.
Now we will implement the head command for the coffee shop info tool.
To implement that head command,
we need to add the Wired Brain Coffee data access class library
that provides the data about the coffee shops.
So let's right-click on the solution and let's select here Add, New Project.
In the new project dialog, let's search here for .NET Standard,
and let's select here the .NET Standard Class
Library template and let's click Next.
Let's call the class library WiredBrainCoffee.DataAccess,
and let's click the Create button to create it.
Now let's go to the Solution Explorer and let's remove this Class1 file.
Let's right-click on the DataAccess project and then select Add,
New Folder, and let's call the new folder Model.
Let's right-click that folder and then select Add, Class.
And let's call the class CoffeeShop and let's click
the Add button to add this class.
Let's make this class public, and let me paste the properties,
location, and BeansInStock in kilograms.
Let's also put the cursor on the usings and let's press
Ctrl+dot to remove the unnecessary usings.
Now let's go again to the Solution Explorer,
let's right-click the DataAccess project,
and let's add another class.
Let's call this class the CoffeeShopDataProvider and
let's click the Add button to add it.
Let's make this class public,
and let me just paste a LoadCoffeeShops method that returns
the information about three coffee shops.
Let's put the cursor on the CoffeeShop class and let's press Ctrl+dot to
add a using for WiredBrainCoffee.DataAccess .Model.
Let's place the cursor on the usings and let's press
Ctrl+dot to remove the unnecessary usings.
Now let's go to the Program.cs file of the console app
and let's implement the head command.
I just add here a line break and I paste in the logic for the head command.
Let me put the cursor on the CoffeeShopDataProvider class,
let's press Ctrl+dot,
and let's add a reference to the WiredBrainCoffee.DataAccess project.
Now let me show you the code that I've added here.
Here I create a new CoffeeShopDataProvider instance
and then I start the while loop.
We read the line from the console,
and then we load the coffee shops by using the coffeeShopDataProvider.
If the line from the console is the string help,
then we write to the console, Available coffee shop commands.
Then we print out the location of each coffee shop.
Let's see this in action and let's run the tool.
Let's type in help and let's press Enter,
and you can see available coffee shop commands Frankfurt,
Freiburg, and Munich.
Okay, so the feature is implemented.
Now let's commit and push our changes.
So let's go to Team Explorer and let's click here on Changes.
As you can see, by default,
Team Explorer displaced the changed files in a hierarchy
so you can see the folder structure,
but you can click here on the three dots and you can switch to a
list view to see the changed files in a flat list.
But personally, I prefer the preview, so let's switch back to the preview.
What's also great to know is that you can see the changed files
with this red check in the Solution Explorer.
Edit files have a green plus in front of them.
You can also right-click files in the Solution Explorer,
and here you find Git actions like Undo,
Commit, View History, Compare with Unmodified,
and Blame.
When you click on Commit, the Changes page of Team Explorer opens up.
Another powerful feature to navigate to Team Explorer and
to this Changes page is the status bar.
Here in the status bar, you can see that we have six changes.
When you click this, Team Explorer opens up with the Changes page.
Now when you look at the changes,
you can see that added files have the add suffix.
If you don't see that suffix, like on the Program.cs file,
it means this file was modified.
When you right-click and edit file,
you'll see you can't compare it with the unmodified version
because there was no unmodified version available.
But when you right-click the Program.cs file,
you can select here Compare with Unmodified.
Now you can see actually in Visual Studio what you have changed.
As you can see,
we have added a using directive for the WiredBrainCoffee.DataAccess namespace,
and then we have added here the code to implement the help command.
Also from the Solution Explorer,
you can right-click the Program.cs file and you can select here
Compare with Unmodified to see the changes.
Now let's go back to the Team Explorer and let's commit our changes.
Let's enter here a commit message.
Let's write Implement help command.
Now you have here the button Commit All, but this is also a drop-down.
You can see you can also commit all changes locally and then
push the changes to the remote repository.
You can also select Commit All and Sync,
which means you commit locally,
then the changes from the remote repository are pulled,
and after that you've pushed all the changes to the remote repository.
When you commit,
Visual Studio will automatically stage all the changed files that you see here,
but maybe you want to stage files explicitly to create separate commits.
For example, in this case,
I want to create a separate commit for the added DataAccess project.
So let's right-click here the WiredBrainCoffee.DataAccess
folder and let's select here Stage.
Now you can see we have staged changes that go into the
current commit and we have other changes.
Let's also stage the solution file as we have added a new project.
So let's select here Stage from the context menu.
Now let's enter a commit message.
Let's write here, Add data access project to solution.
Now, again, you can commit the staged changes locally.
You can also push or you can sync.
Let's click Commit Staged to commit the changes locally.
Now you can see here the leftover changes.
In the CS project file,
we have added a reference to the DataAccess project that we needed to
implement the head command in the Program.cs file.
So let's write here the commit message, Implement help command,
and let's click Commit All.
Now we have all the changes committed.
So when you go to the Branches page and you right-click here on
the master branch and you select View History,
you can see the two commits that we have just created,
Add data access project to solution and Implement help command.
To push the commits, you go to Synchronization page of Team Explorer.
Here you can see that we have two Outgoing Commits.
Usually before you push,
you check if there are Incoming Commits by clicking here on Fetch.
There is no Incoming Commit, so we can push.
But before we click here on Push, let's close Team Explorer.
You can also see down here in the Status bar that we have two un-pushed commits.
So when you click this,
Team Explorer comes back and you are directly on the Synchronization page.
Now let's click here on Push to push these two commits to the remote repository.
We have successfully pushed now the two commits to the remote master branch.
In the next clip, we will switch to the user Julia. You will see how she fetches and pulls the changes from the remote repository.